# neural-network-aicar


Clarification for misuse of inputs

At the beginning of this project, I had thought of using the points of the sensors (with no max range) as the inputs for the inputvectors. This meant that the x value of a sensor would range from 0 to 1920 and the y value would range from 0 to 1080.
The problem of using this as the inputs is that this had no actual meaning for the inputs (no consistency) in terms of the position of the car on the map with relation to the barriers. It allowed the neural networks to learn for very specific scenarios when all the points would align, but when it faced to points, it would go insane. The first way I thought of solving this problem was to add a max range to the sensors. This would allow for more information and learning to occur, as it meant that if theres a range, it could know there is no barrier ahead of the car if the value was the max range, allowing for the neural network to go to that direction. This would lead me onto the next fix, as having a max range would not mean anything with the x and y values given to the inputs, instead using a distance measure of the points would effectively allow the neural network to know when a wall would be close, and if there is a path forward. 

limitations
the fitness used in the neural network was the iteration number, specifically how long the car drove for. If it had a hollision, it would not make it to the next generation. If all cars had a collision, it would pick as car that was the last to have that collision. The issue with using the number of iteration as the fitness was that one way the neural network would find the best solution was to spin in circles, allowing for the neural network to farm infinite iterations without actually making progress. This could have been fixed by creating a checkpoint system but integrating that with my current setup would have been tedious, so instead I opted for a different solution of creating the racecourse walls small enough that the cars cannot spin in circles. This meant that there were many limitations to which scenarios I could test the neural networks in, making it harder to  test in open spaces as the cars had no real sense of direction on where to go.

Hypothesis
Although making this hypothesis after creating the software, I do not yet know how the neural network looks like, and will be guessing how the weights and inputs/outputs may be connected.

I believe that first and foremost the sensors going from right to left will have the strongest weights with the corresponding turn. For example, if the left most sensor is 300 (or the max distance) this means that there are no obstacles in that direction. This also means that turning that direction would result in the neural network surviving longer, therefore the weight